lions don't usually hunt elephants
but desperate times require desperate
measures
this herd contains cars easier targets
but how to reach them
the adults encircle their young it's an
impenetrable wall of gray
[Music]
a few exhausted stragglers are still
arriving
one of them is alone
[Music]
but it's too big for the lions to tackle
this one looks a little smaller
[Applause]
a solitary lion stands no chance
but the whole pride is here
there are 30 of them and they're
specialist elephant hunters
[Music]
so
this elephant will feed the whole pride
for at least a week
as night falls the situation turns into
a crisis
the cubs head straight towards the
village
this could be disastrous for the cubs
dangerous for the people
and jeopardize everything flips worked
so hard for
so much is at stake that flip even
enlists help from a local tourist lodge
i think you should drive past us now
and you go goku and you're going to tell
people
that the lions are lying here you'll be
watching them very carefully
and then tell them if they come anywhere
close to the village we'll dodge them
just so that they know and see that it's
not just
us sort of favoring the lions at their
but their expense
the garlic lioness is flicking a tail a
lot just look at that now she's gonna
the lions are just a quarter of a mile
from the village
when flip decides to intervene by
broadcasting a lion raw
he hopes the cubs will be distracted
okay just tell us when they leave
both running down okay one time let's go
okay everything's done
at first it's not clear whether his plan
is working
it looks like they're turning around and
coming back into the just watching them
carefully i can
barely see them so i'll get back to you
when i know
thankfully as the cubs turn back down
the river
and away from the village flip can relax
even so he stays with them until he's
sure they're well out of danger
what
is going in search of the youngster's
mother
she's been wearing the collar for nine
months and the battery is beginning to
fail
he needs to find her fast
finally he picks up a signal in a river
valley to the south
of the warasseb
the detailed tracking information stored
in the high-tech collar
will throw light on her movements
crucial data
to help protect her family and the
entire desert lion population
darting is a necessary intrusion though
flip
never takes it lightly and for him
getting this close to lions never loses
its magic
she's beautiful
the gps collar is the first time i touch
it
for nine months it's been on this line
this this whole time
and it it's still working the
led light is still going you can see it
so it's been storing all this incredible
information
for the last nine months
this girl she's the queen
she's the queen of them all i know this
is my
by far my most favorite and special
lioness
look she's hardcore she takes no
nonsense
and and she's just she lives it on the
edge
okay well now we have to look at your
teeth
do you see if you are still in good nick
man look at that isn't that beautiful
oh goodness look at that
sorry
man
sorry my dear sorry sorry sorry sorry
sorry
let's have a look at the claws you're
sharp look at that
my goodness it's like a needle oh
especially
the fourth finger and the middle finger
are just
really really sharp now the most amazing
thing is
their feet just smells so amazing it's
got a nicer smell to it
sort of musky just a really like a sweet
sweet sort of musky smell i know what an
awesome feeling to be so close
okay
you'll be good
he quickly discovers that his favorite
lioness
isn't just in good condition she's
become
really smart
so this is what our this is incredible
it means is this these
movements back and forth back to turos
geez like bright and colors
three pass bursts and then
i spent in the early morning between
midnight and the morning and then all
the way back again
it's a great sign she's proving she can
live right under people's noses without
causing them
any trouble at all
when i see this i would like to have a
gps collar on every line
because that's information is just
phenomenal
dr flip stander's great passion is lions
he studies them tracks them and even
things like them
that was a print that was a print
they definitely crouched down and they
and you can see the feet placement are
very careful
you can almost see the toes are sort of
pressed in it's like they're stretching
and at this point just after they get
into the opening they split up
for months flip found nothing but tracks
this was a frustrating campaign in a
place where the heat
is intense enough to crack rock
[Music]
even oryx the hardy desert specialists
and a handful of giraffe that live here
have a tough time
it was to take months of patient
tracking before the elusive desert
phantoms
finally took shape
he was able to put a radio collar on one
lioness
then two but just following them seemed
impossible
the animals were shy and the boulder
fields impossible
a far cry from the serengeti where lions
can be followed easily day and night
flip's best hope was to take to the air
even this was fraught in a landscape
that dwarfs everything
eventually the first two lions led to
more
flip had made a momentous discovery
there was a surviving pride of desert
lions
and it had found refuge in a remote
canyon
this was the first time that anyone had
been able to get a really good look
at the world's most unusual lions
it was clear from the start that their
behavior was
out of the ordinary in the first sort of
three or four years
i documented the most outrageous growth
rate it was in excess of
30 per annum and all really driven by
four adult lionesses the only word to
describe them would be like breeding
machines
because that's that's just what they
were
not only this more cubs were surviving
to adulthood than elsewhere in africa
this once beleaguered group of lions was
staging an extraordinary comeback
and it allowed them to fan out into
areas they hadn't been seen in for over
20 years
lions are mostly active at night and
seldom raw during the day
we tried to persuade them to do so with
the help of scientists
by paying back the roar of a strange
land
to a resident pride
even that didn't work
but 12 years later i set off in an
open-sided land rover
with the latest infrared technology to
try again
as usual they were sleeping i would have
to wait
for darkness
[Music]
we drive up i go on one side the camera
goes on the other
and the lion starts roaring but the
problem is
i can't see where it is i can't even see
where the camera is
q says the producer so i start trying to
say my piece
trying not to be too frightened of this
lion which is somewhere in the blackness
as far as i can make out
within a couple of yards on me and no
side on the land rover
and i then had to do my piece to camera
looking around see where
the camera was and now in the darkness
there are a number of them roaring
just around here there too i know
within three or four yards of where i am
now
and there's a third perhaps 20 yards
over there though it's difficult to tell
because it's pitch black
those are not aggressive laws
they are communication laws
but they are quite enough to chill the
blood
in the blackness of the knife
[Music]
you